README.md, before:

# Android-Playground
Just a playground for testing android coding

#Animations in Android
1. ObjectAnimator
2. Interpolator
3. Evaluators

##ObjectAnimator
The object animator is the easiest and simplest animations that can be implemented in android using the ObjectAnimator Class
ObjectAnimator object = ObjectAnimator.ofFloat(widget,property,value); //Can use the function ofInt as well

The various properties are as follows

1. rotation
2. rotationX
3. rotationY
4. scaleX
5. scaleY

Example code
```java

ObjectAnimator rotation = ObjectAnimator.ofFloat(ivTest,"rotation",360);
rotation.setDuration(2000);
rotation.start();

```

##Interpolator
Interpolators are used for creating animations on android widgets. The following interpolators are supported in android : 

1. bounce_interpolator
2. accelerate_interpolator
3. decelerate_interpolator
4. cycle_interpolator
5. anticipate_interpolator
6. overshoot_interpolator
7. accelerate_decelerate_interpolator
8. linear_interpolator
9. anticipate_overshoot_interpolator

Once the above interpolators are set in the anim xml files. The we have to do the following in code
Create an animation class
Animation animation = AnimationUtils.loadAnimation(this,R.anim.yourxmlfilename);

Start the animation using the widget as follows
widget.startAnimation(animation);

xml file example
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<set xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    android:interpolator="@android:anim/bounce_interpolator">
    <translate
        android:fromYDelta="-100%p"
        android:toYDelta="0"
        android:duration="2000"
        />
</set>
```

##Evaluators
Animating colors and rectangles can be achieved using ArgbEvalutor and RectEvalutor. The implementation is done using the ObjectAnimator and using the method ofObject present within the ObjectAnimator class.

Example
```java
ObjectAnimator argbEvaluator = ObjectAnimator.ofObject(ivArgbEvaluators, "backgroundColor", new ArgbEvaluator(), Color.CYAN, Color.MAGENTA);
argbEvaluator.setDuration(5000);
argbEvaluator.start();
```

#Intent
Share, view links, call, send messages and do other exiting things using intents a few examples as given below

Code to view web link
```java
Intent viewLinkIntent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_VIEW,Uri.parse("http://www.google.com"));
startActivity(viewLinkIntent);
```

Code to share
```java
Intent shareIntent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_SEND);
shareIntent.setType("text/plain");
shareIntent.putExtra(Intent.EXTRA_TEXT,"Something you want to share");
startActivity(Intent.createChooser(shareIntent,"Share using"));
```

#Threads
Threads can be implemented in two ways

1. Extending the Thread class
2. Implementing the Runnable Interface

**Asynchronous - Message Queue (Will complete one item after another)**

1. Activity
2. Service
3. Broadcast Receiever

**Synchronous - Runs on the main thread**

1. Content Provider

Anything that is going to perform a long operation will block the main thread and cause the application to crash, use additional threads for tasks longer than 5 seconds. For very long time consumption operation use services

**Android Threading Architecture**

Process has the following

1. Internal Components
	* Activities
	* Services
	* Content Provider
	* Broadcast receiever
2. Contains the main thread which is run by the looper
3. Thread pool
4. External Componenets

![Android process](https://github.com/dilipkumar4813/Android-Playground/blob/master/explanation-assets/android-process-threads.png)

Methods

1. runOnUiThread(Runnable runnable) - use to update the UI
2. post(Runnable runnable) - Add to message queue
3. postDelayed(Runnable runnable,long miliseconds) - Execute after a time provided
4. setThreadPriority(int priority) -> -20 highest and 19 lowest priority

Example
```java
new Thread(new Runnable(){
	public void run(){
		downloadSomething();
	}
});
```

The progress dialog runs as a thread and the value of the progress dialog can be set from a thread using the following code

```java
progressdialogwidget.post(priority);
```


#Collections
Collection is the root interface from which the classes are dervices

There main classes derived from the root collection class are List, Sets and Queue

###Lists
1. ArrayList
2. LinkedList
3. Vector -> Stack

###Sets
1. HashSet -> LinkedHashSet
2. SortedSet -> NavigableSet -> TreeSet

###Queue
1. PriorityQueue
2. BlockingQueue
	* LinkedBlockingQueue
	* PriorityBlockingQueue
	
##Maps
1. HashMap -> LinkedHashMap
2. WeakHashMap
3. SortedMap -> NavigableMap -> TreeMap
4. IdentityHashMap
5. HashTable -> Properties

Commit message:

Update on handlers and threads

README.md, after:

# Android-Playground
Just a playground for testing android coding

#Animations in Android
1. ObjectAnimator
2. Interpolator
3. Evaluators

##ObjectAnimator
The object animator is the easiest and simplest animations that can be implemented in android using the ObjectAnimator Class
ObjectAnimator object = ObjectAnimator.ofFloat(widget,property,value); //Can use the function ofInt as well

The various properties are as follows

1. rotation
2. rotationX
3. rotationY
4. scaleX
5. scaleY

Example code
```java

ObjectAnimator rotation = ObjectAnimator.ofFloat(ivTest,"rotation",360);
rotation.setDuration(2000);
rotation.start();

```

##Interpolator
Interpolators are used for creating animations on android widgets. The following interpolators are supported in android : 

1. bounce_interpolator
2. accelerate_interpolator
3. decelerate_interpolator
4. cycle_interpolator
5. anticipate_interpolator
6. overshoot_interpolator
7. accelerate_decelerate_interpolator
8. linear_interpolator
9. anticipate_overshoot_interpolator

Once the above interpolators are set in the anim xml files. The we have to do the following in code
Create an animation class
Animation animation = AnimationUtils.loadAnimation(this,R.anim.yourxmlfilename);

Start the animation using the widget as follows
widget.startAnimation(animation);

xml file example
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<set xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    android:interpolator="@android:anim/bounce_interpolator">
    <translate
        android:fromYDelta="-100%p"
        android:toYDelta="0"
        android:duration="2000"
        />
</set>
```

##Evaluators
Animating colors and rectangles can be achieved using ArgbEvalutor and RectEvalutor. The implementation is done using the ObjectAnimator and using the method ofObject present within the ObjectAnimator class.

Example
```java
ObjectAnimator argbEvaluator = ObjectAnimator.ofObject(ivArgbEvaluators, "backgroundColor", new ArgbEvaluator(), Color.CYAN, Color.MAGENTA);
argbEvaluator.setDuration(5000);
argbEvaluator.start();
```

#Intent
Share, view links, call, send messages and do other exiting things using intents a few examples as given below

Code to view web link
```java
Intent viewLinkIntent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_VIEW,Uri.parse("http://www.google.com"));
startActivity(viewLinkIntent);
```

Code to share
```java
Intent shareIntent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_SEND);
shareIntent.setType("text/plain");
shareIntent.putExtra(Intent.EXTRA_TEXT,"Something you want to share");
startActivity(Intent.createChooser(shareIntent,"Share using"));
```

#Threads
Threads can be implemented in two ways

1. Extending the Thread class
2. Implementing the Runnable Interface

**Asynchronous - Message Queue (Will complete one item after another)**

1. Activity
2. Service
3. Broadcast Receiever

**Synchronous - Runs on the main thread**

1. Content Provider

Anything that is going to perform a long operation will block the main thread and cause the application to crash, use additional threads for tasks longer than 5 seconds. For very long time consumption operation use services

**Android Threading Architecture**

Process has the following

1. Internal Components
	* Activities
	* Services
	* Content Provider
	* Broadcast receiever
2. Contains the main thread which is run by the looper
3. Thread pool
4. External Componenets

![Android process](https://github.com/dilipkumar4813/Android-Playground/blob/master/explanation-assets/android-process-threads.png)

Methods

1. runOnUiThread(Runnable runnable) - use to update the UI
2. post(Runnable runnable) - Add to message queue
3. postDelayed(Runnable runnable,long miliseconds) - Execute after a time provided
4. setThreadPriority(int priority) -> -20 highest and 19 lowest priority

Example
```java
new Thread(new Runnable(){
	public void run(){
		downloadSomething();
	}
});
```

The progress dialog runs as a thread and the value of the progress dialog can be set from a thread using the following code

```java
progressdialogwidget.post(priority);
```

#Handlers
We use handlers for two main reasons

1. To communicate between threads
2. Send messages between threads

An activity can contain a single Handler, You can create a handler using `Handler handler = new Handler();`

#Async Task
An Async task is used to perform operations that take longer time. Within an Async task the following functions can be implemented

1. onPreExecute
2. doInBackground
3. onPostExecute
4. onProgressUpdate

#Communicating between different Android Applications
To view data of another application the userId of the application has to been shared between the applications. To do this we go into the manifest.xml and in the root tag we provide `ShareUserId="unique-name"`

#Collections
Collection is the root interface from which the classes are dervices

There main classes derived from the root collection class are List, Sets and Queue

###Lists
1. ArrayList
2. LinkedList
3. Vector -> Stack

###Sets
1. HashSet -> LinkedHashSet
2. SortedSet -> NavigableSet -> TreeSet

###Queue
1. PriorityQueue
2. BlockingQueue
	* LinkedBlockingQueue
	* PriorityBlockingQueue
	
##Maps
1. HashMap -> LinkedHashMap
2. WeakHashMap
3. SortedMap -> NavigableMap -> TreeMap
4. IdentityHashMap
5. HashTable -> Properties
